well howdy they're going to know people
it's Bo again so today we're gonna talk
about deflation deflation spirals
riches-to-rags stories most people know
what inflation is that's the price of
everything going up your purchasing
power gets weaker okay as a consumer
you're used to that that's typically
what's occurring in the United States
deflation is the opposite prices are
going down your purchasing power is
getting stronger and that sounds like a
good thing and it is in the short term
and when I say prices I don't just mean
like on single items talk about
something called the Consumer Price
Index picture like an average of the
cost of almost everything so your
purchasing power is getting stronger
that sounds good and it is for a limited
time however if a deflationary period is
prolonged you can enter something called
a deflation spiral prices go down
because demand is less so the companies
selling less of their product so they
lower prices to try to entice buyers if
buyers don't bite then the company is
selling less of their products at a
lower price if it's less of their
products at a lower price they have less
money coming in if they have less money
coming in short term they can weather it
long term they still have the same
liabilities they still have the same
debt they sell the same stuff they have
to pay if they can't do it by getting a
revenue and having money coming in if
they can't meet those payments their
options are to cut cost the layoffs wage
reductions closures that transfers the
burden of a deflation spiral back to the
consumer because now you're in the same
boat you have less money coming in but
you still have your car payment in your
house payment
which typically a lot of this is
psychological as you can see typically
means you're gonna spend less money
because you're worried make sense you
try to keep your cash on hand the cash
isn't moving it's not actually in the
economy it's sitting somewhere the
currency as this goes on and on if it
continues too long what happens the
Great Depression there was a
deflationary spiral in that a doom loop
I've read that it's kind of tied more to
the change in unemployment rather than
the actual level of unemployment for
those that really want to get into it
and see some neat starting points that's
a good one to start with so why is it
happening well demand dropped because of
you know everybody staying home for a
lot of products people were staying home
they weren't making money so they held
on to it they didn't get a stimulus to
make them buy products online which
would have helped keep prices up in
addition to that before then you have
policies enacted by the administration
that intentionally lowered demand for
certain products the tariffs the tariffs
intentionally raised prices in an
attempt to keep people from buying some
of them I know this goes against the
whole America first thing I got it but
it is what it is so what's the
government response what can they do now
it should be pointed out before we get
too far into this that US average people
yeah it hurts it hurts but those of us
on the bottom what we're used to
discomfort and there's only so much we
can live however for those at the top
when this begins happening they can lose
everything they can go from being
millionaires and billionaires to have
nothing riches-to-rags government policy
fiscal policy can help in this and it
probably will because very soon all of
those high power lobbyists are going to
be going to these senators saying we're
in trouble
and the policy the solution is to inject
more money into the economy to free it
up to get it moving again had the
government done what was moral in the
beginning and bailed out the little
people the money would have flowed up
the money would have been spent prices
wouldn't have fallen they didn't do that
really 1200 bucks that's probably what's
going to happen
dad that's probably what's what's going
to happen if this deflationary period
continues for any length of time they're
gonna have to do another stimulus it's
gonna have to be a big one kind of like
the crazy one that everybody is making
fun of now they're probably gonna have
to do that to keep the economy moving as
is normally the case had to government
and those politicians that were so
concerned about feathering their own
nests had they done what was right for
the country in the beginning we wouldn't
have this problem now but we do here we
are or staring down the barrel of the
doom loop is it unavoidable no it's not
it could very easily be sidestepped
is it gonna be I don't know we have a
bunch of buffoons up there to be honest
I don't think many of them actually
understand any of these subjects they
just go off what their advisors tell
them however a lot of their rhetoric for
a lot of time has always been well how
are we gonna pay for it all right now
you're not gonna pay for anything if you
don't get that money move it if the
money that's currently in circulation
that people are holding on to because
they're nervous doesn't start moving
yeah
for anything because there's gonna be no
taxes I think most people know my
ideological stance on a lot of this
however I am not willing to advocate
that people go into bankruptcy just to
pass some ideological purity test on the
internet this is the system we're in and
what we're not going to change it before
this happens so until then we have to
play by the rules of the system to avoid
your neighbor becoming homeless it's uh
that's probably what's gonna need to
happen they're gonna need to pump money
into the economy so when if you start
hearing just ridiculously large numbers
understand that's why that is why and
there are methods to deal with getting
that money out of circulation as well
without causing huge problems but we'll
see what they do either way it's
something you need to be aware of it's
something you need to keep an eye on
from an economic standpoint looking at
the whole economy I think the advice for
most experts would be to make sure you
spend some money I'm not an expert and I
can tell you I would I would be paying
off that I would be not making a
non-essential purchases I'd be keeping
cash on hand because if this gets out of
hand you very well may lose your job
permanently and the longer the ups and
downs of stay at home okay know we can
come out stay at home know okay we can
come out but longer it goes on the more
likely this is to happen because money
gets held longer it's not in circulation
so all of those who were pushing for a
fast reopen and now it looks like a lot
of those places are going to have to
close back up Congrats your main concern
was the economy and you may have
provided at a mortal wound good job
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
y'all have a good night